# Chromium policy definitions

This directory houses the data templates used Chromium browser and OS policies.

# Policy definitions

Policies are defined under
[policy_definitions](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/components/policy/resources/templates/policy_definitions).
Every subdirectory represents a policy group.

* To create a new policy group, create a new directory named after the new group
  under [policy_definitions](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/components/policy/resources/templates/policy_definitions).
* To create a new policy, create a yaml file under the appropriate group.
  The name of the file will be the name of the policy.
  For more information on policy creation, visit [add_new_policy.md](/docs/enterprise/add_new_policy.md#adding-a-new-policy).
* To remove a policy, more information can be found at [add_new_policy.md](/docs/enterprise/add_new_policy.md#removing-support-for-a-policy).
  * If the policy was released, mark it as deprecated, add an end milestone in the
    supported_on field of that policy. You may only remove support for a policy
    after the last milestone of support has passed.
  * If the policy was not released, delete the yaml file of that policy, and
  replace its name in [policies.yaml](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/components/policy/resources/templates/policies.yaml) by an empty string.
  * Removing policies also requires deleting all references to that policy in the code.


# Policy templates.json

Policies used to be defined in policy_templates.json.
[This is a link to the last version of the file](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:components/policy/resources/policy_templates.json;drc=ca7ce9943037356d8a346a6b14799d271fdd98c6).

This file is still used in some other pipelines but it is now generated by
policy_templates.py where needed.
[This is a link to the generated policy_templates.json](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:out/Debug/gen/chrome/app/policy/policy_templates.json).
